# Simple Event Bus
Simple Event Bus is a type safe event publication API for Java. The core API is small and highly composable. There are only three main interfaces: `Receiver<I>`, `Emitter<O>`, and their combination, `Op<I,O>`. Ops can emit zero or more events for each event they receive, so they can do just about anything. Several useful ops are included in the library. Ops can be chained together using fluent builders.

This project gradually evolved a vague similarity to RxJava, and then I simply started using RxJava. I still think this library is easier to understand, in part because identifiers in RxJava are not very descriptive. But I eventually decided that the rich feature set and large user base of RxJava are worth the steep learning curve.

## Compared to RxJava
Simple Event Bus differs from RxJava 2 primarily in its approach to pushback. In Observer/Observable terminology, pushback means that observables do not deliver events to their observers until the observers have requested some finite number of events. This allows observers to use bounded buffers without worrying about overflow. Pushback only makes sense for what RxJava calls "cold" observables, which produce events on demand. "Hot" observables like user input are incompatible with pushback unless it's acceptable to combine or discard some events when buffers are full.

RxJava 2 is designed around pushback. Observers (in the general sense of the word) can operate without pushback by requesting `Long.MAX_VALUE` events. Simple Event Bus takes the opposite approach. Pushback is *not* baked into the API, but you can implement it yourself by connecting ops in an asynchronous loop.

## Features
The library's namesake and original *raison d'être*, `SimpleEventBus`, has evolved into a synchronous multicast `Op`. Its receivers can be stored in any type of collection. Receiver priority, fairness, etc., is controlled by the iteration order of the collection. The receiver collection can be wrapped in a `CopyOnWriteCollection` so receivers can safely unregister themselves during event delivery. Exception handling is composable, so exceptions can be prevented from breaking the iteration of the receiver collection. A subclass, `StickyEventBus`, retains the last event emitted and delivers it to any subsequently registered receiver.